It's said that when God rescued us through Jesus, He didn't just connect us to a head, but to a body as well.
He didn't just connect us to himself.
He connected us to one another.
That's why the relationships in this group are so important.
They give you the opportunity to find perspective on what it means to trust and obey God in the context of your everyday life.
This is community with insiders.
Tonight, Clay Scroggins is going to unpack how the relationships in this group can be different from the other relationships in your life.
And then some of our group leaders are going to give you specific, actual examples of how they've seen community with insiders play out.
Can you imagine a baseball team leaving first base unattended?
They would never do that.
Because that's an extremely important position for every team.
See, they would never say, "You know what? We got Fred over there and he's good, but he's just not a great fielder."
And then we got Bob over there who's just he's a good hitter but he's just a little too chatty.
So we're just going to leave the position open.
No, they would never do that.
Because they wouldn't want to face the consequences of leaving such an important position.
unattended.
Yet people do that in life all the time.
In fact, my wife and I met with a marriage counselor, a great friend of ours a couple of years ago, who said, "You know what?
If you guys aren't careful, you have the propensity
To leave first base open in your life.
Because all of us lean towards, we all gravitate towards moving towards isolation. And if we're not careful, we'll leave an extremely important relationship at
In our life.
Unattended.
You know what first base is for you? First base is that couple.
That you can depend on.
First base is that guy that you can call when things aren't going your way.
First base is the
The couple that you can call when it's Friday night and you just want to grab a pizza with somebody.
And all of us need someone on first base in our lives.
Even though God wired us to need community, we live in a world that pushes us further and further into isolation. Our culture
drives us towards isolation. There's a guy named Robert Putnam who wrote a book a number of years ago that showed since the 1970s that our culture has been on the decline.
When it comes to people engaging in social activity, playing recreational leagues, and it's not just true as far as our social engagement in the community, it's also true
In the way we engage in social media.
These discoveries in social media were meant to connect us to others, but
In one sense, they actually, we find ourselves
Sitting in front of our phone or sitting in front of our computer
Isolated more than we are connected.
One of the interesting things about our culture is the invention of the garage door.
It's just natural tendency for us to live in our subdivisions and just pull right into our garage while waving at our neighbor, watching the door close behind us, closing us off.
Off to a relationship.
And unfortunately, that's just not the way God wired us to live.
See, throughout Scripture, we see the steam of a team, right?
The same way that a team is dependent upon each other.
For
Each individual person's growth, but also for the team growth.
God actually gave us an amazing metaphor to explain this through the apostle Paul. Paul wrote a letter called 1 Corinthians and in 1 Corinthians Paul gives us this illustration here.
He says that we are like a body. We meaning the church, the body of Christ. And he uses that word very strategically.
Because in the same way a body has different parts,
That each function differently and in a sense function individually
He says those parts are very interdependent.
upon each other. He says the hand would never say to the foot, "I don't need you. I could just live without you." He says, "No, that would be foolish. That would be ridiculous." And the same thing
So in the same way, the foot would never say that to the hand, right?
Because the parts of the body are meant to work together to help the overall body but also to help each part individually.
And the same is true for you and the same is true for me, that God's plan to grow you is probably through someone else.
And God's plan to grow someone else is probably through you.
And this group that you're sitting in right now is a wonderful opportunity for you to allow God to do something great. But it's going to be when you do something that
Something as well it's going to be when you step out and say you know what
I'm going to be a part of this group and I may or may not find my first basement, but I'm stepping into a wonderful opportunity where God might just use the people around me to grow me.
And God might also use you to grow the people around you.
So we want you to do just a couple of things. We'll make it really simple, really easy. We want you to just show up to group, which you've already done that.
We want you to join in. We want you to...
to take the initiative to say, "Hey, look, I'm gonna join in the conversation. I'm gonna join in the lives of these people around me."
And then the last thing is we want you to be real.
We want you to be honest about your life, to be authentic about your life.
It doesn't mean you've got to spill all your deepest, darkest secrets.
But it does mean that when the time is right that you can be vulnerable about your life, that you can be authentic and real and true.
About who you are and about what's going on in your life.
And when you do that, you're going to find that God really has wired you to enjoy your life.
When it's lived in community with others.
The misconception is that group is Monday night.
From five to seven you know it's kind of like anything that you do that is the the time and investment that you put into it so
Taking the time to invest in relationships makes group
I'm so much more meaningful.
I think that when people start to take the initiative, like you said, it starts to build a strengthening community.
On the night of small group and outside of small group, which is really what community is, and I've been surprised just how much just.
Talking with somebody and seeing them outside of group really can strengthen those relationships, because then you wouldn't think that talking to somebody,
twice a week as opposed to once a week would change that much. But we found that it really does.
When you sign up,
You say, "I'm pretty much committed to be here." And, you know, everybody gets the sense that you are.
There are vacations, there are illnesses.
But...
We have been in groups where people have not come for...
Far lesser reasons
The nose and
Fairly inconsequential reasons and when that happens
You get a sense that if
They don't.
care, then almost like, why should you care? And all of a sudden, the times that you have the necessary quorum,
Become less
So you tend to meet less. So this is like a rolling stone bed effect.
One kind of misconception I think a lot of people have is that they think when I don't show up for group that night it just affects me.
that I'm not getting anything out of group or I didn't get anything out of group last week and I had a rough day at work today so I'm just gonna stay at home tonight. You have no idea
idea what
Just showing up and being there.
really will do. I think there's a misconception sometimes about men in small groups.
And I think often people come in as guys to be much more guarded and much more walls up.
Some of the coolest things that I've seen in our small group is when we were able to
Break those walls down and your faith
And God grows because you know
That you're loved
You know that people care about you.
But you also know on the flip side of that that someone's going to hold you accountable.
I think one thing for us that we found in groups is
There's a huge difference between
If people are really vulnerable when they share their stories at first, how quickly everyone just seems to really bond. Even if your personalities are different or your life stories are completely different.
different I think.
You just bond because you're open and honest with each other and feel more comfortable sharing with other people.
We had something go on where the group leader said, "Let's talk about..." and there was a very specific agenda about
How you met and how you got married and some of the high points.
And then some of the low points.
And there was a couple that started off that we knew fairly well.
And it was about the most honest
Transparent, emotional things.
We've ever gone through.
It's just great. It was just absolutely terrific. But it took one couple.
And the guts of one couple to start it off so that the others could say if they're willing
To talk about that.
And indeed
I can talk about.
This.
I think God has challenged us all to grow.
But also to grow in a way that we grow together.
And knowing that this is not a
Just my relationship with God, but we grow together in our relationship with God.
I feel like it helps help you see how big God actually is.
Because sitting in a big church, sometimes it's difficult to see that what he's saying on the stage is impacting me, but I don't know what it's doing for me.
for anyone else and so to sit across from people in a circle and say, "What did you think about that sermon?" or "What's God teaching you?" and to see that God is
And God's working in their heart just as well as yours. Amen.
Makes God so much bigger. Small group got me, got my wife and I to forgive some relatives that hit the floor we hadn't talked to.
For four or five years.
Okay, I'm...
I'll say i'm wrong.
What do I lose?
So I said I'm wrong and all of a sudden we have relationships with very close siblings.
That hit the floor for five or six years we didn't do.
Small group.
Urged us to do that.
so i i know there's growing faith in terms of understanding the bible these are growing applications of faith.
I think one of the greatest things that I've seen is that there's purpose to small group.
There's a reason why God put that couple
That person into your life.
People get into groups and they go, how in the world did we get together?
But there's such a cool plan that God has that if you allow him to work it out and give him time to nurture those relationships and you invest the time in those relationships,
time in those relationships, you'll see the fruit come out and you'll have that aha moment when you decide to split down the road and you'll go, oh,
Wow.
God was here and God worked in miraculous ways.
Building the kind of community that changes lives means prioritizing the relationships with the people in this group. It means being available to each other.
Take a little time now and talk about community with insiders.